#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\renewcommand\[{\begin{equation}}
\renewcommand\]{\end{equation}}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1cm
\topmargin 1cm
\rightmargin 1cm
\bottommargin 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Response to Dr.
 Michael Cardiff Colleague Review of 
\emph on
Approaches in Highly Parameterized Inversion – bgaPEST: A Bayesian Geostatistica
l Approach Implementation with Pest – Documentation and Instructions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Dear Mike:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Thanks very much for your thorough and informed review of our manuscript
 
\emph on
Approaches in Highly Parameterized Inversion – bgaPEST: A Bayesian Geostatistica
l Approach Implementation with Pest – Documentation and Instructions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Overall Review In this work, Fienen et al.
 describe and provide instructions for use of a new computer code allowing
 the use of the Bayesian Geostatistical Algorithm (as originally formulated
 by Kitanidis and refined by Cirpka, Nowak, et al.) for performing highly-paramet
erized inverse modeling (imaging).
 Bayesian tools have many benefits relative to traditional parameter estimation
 strategies, but have seen relatively limited adoption by practicing hydrogeolog
ists.
 As such, this work represents an important contribution that can help to
 move some traditionally “research-focused” tools into the realm of practical
 application In reviewing this work, I focused primarily on reviewing the
 theory and readability of the documentation.
 With regards to this part of the work, I feel that only minor edits are
 necessary.
 I have suggested some edits below, which I believe will help to both improve
 the readability and rigor.
 In addition, I have a few thoughts / suggestions on the capabilities of
 the code that may improve its utility, which are discussed below.
 I wish the authors the best of luck with editing this manuscript which
 – along with the accompanying code – will help to bring some important
 research-grade tools into practical application.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Minor Concerns
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I have included numerous small comments within the PDF manuscript.
 Below I highlight a few general “theme areas” that represent broader-scale
 comments about the manuscript or ideas for program extensions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1) Introduction – The introduction is nice as is, but it may help to present
 a simple example here in order to engage the reader early on.
 It is also much easier to discuss geostatistical concepts and inverse modeling
 in the context of a presented example with pictures.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
2) Choices on the bgaPEST control variable structural_conv (p.
 14-15): Some of this seems somewhat arbitrary, and may not give good convergenc
e with the given default values.
 The key problem is formula 4.
 A relatively small default value is given (0.001), but since the metric
 considered is not unitless, it may perform well in some cases and poorly
 in others.
 I have included a suggestion on how to change the computation of this metric
 in the PDF comments.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3) Parameter Anisotropy – It would be extremely useful (and not too difficult
 to code, maybe) if users were given the ability to decide whether or not
 parameter anisotropy variables are allowed to be optimized in addition
 to variances.
 Also, would it not be possible to include a second rotation so that non-horizon
tal layering could be considered (e.g., a y-z rotation angle?)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
4) Two notable techniques that help to make bga algorithms practical for
 large-scale (e.g., 100K + parameters) inversion on non-parallel computers
 are circulant embedding / fast fourier transform techniques for computing
 Toeplitz matrix-vector products (see, e.g., the work of Nowak), and adjoint-state
 Jacobian calculations.
 It sounds to me from reading the documentation that the former is not implement
ed.
 The authors may consider discussing these techniques, though, and/or discussing
 in what future software they may be implemented.
 As for the adjoint-state Jacobian calculations (p.
 19), it may be a good idea to just direct readers to a few relevant publication
s on the subject, in case they are faced with large-scale problems and/or
 have an intellectual curiosity in the area.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
5) In the original theory of Kitanidis, no prior information was assumed
 about betas.
 Is it possible / planned for a future version to implement this formulation
 (i.e., where Q_beta,beta is replaced with 0 and similar edits to the formulas
 are made elsewhere)? It is not a major concern, since many users will probably
 want to specify some degree of prior information about assumed mean-values
 within facies, for example.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
